# Hospitality-Dataset-EDA-using-Python
This project is focused on analyzing and visualizing data from a hotel chain. Through this analysis, we aim to uncover insights and patterns that can help understand the dynamics of the hospitality and service industry.

## Data Overview
1. dim_date.csv file contains information of the dates related to bookings in fact_bookings.csv.
2. dim_hotels.csv file contains information about all the hotels in the AtliQ hotel chain and their types.
3. dim_rooms.csv file contains information about the types of rooms in hotels.
4. fact_aggregated_bookings file contains information about successful bookings and capacity which are related to check in date.
6. fact_bookings.csv file contains information about revenues and booking platforms which are related to all bookings.

## Tool -> Jupyter Notebook.

## Approach
Step 1 -> Merging the dimensions tables with fact tables.<br>
Step 2 -> Data Cleaning by deleting all the unnecessary columns, renaming columns, and droping the null values.<br>
Step 3 -> Displaying the dataset info and dimensions.<br>
Step 4 -> Extracting important insights from datasets.<br>
Step 5 -> Data Visualization which helps to uncover trends and patterns.

### Key Performance Indicators
1. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.
2. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
3. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
4. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
5. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
6. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer canceled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out], or booked his room but did not stay in the hotel[No show].
7. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
8. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.


### Skills Acquired
1. Data Cleaning
2. Data Analysis
3. Data Visualization
4. Python
5. Numpy, Pandas, Seaborn and Matplotlib

### The following questions were resolved through this exploratory data analysis (EDA):
1. Find out unique property IDs in the aggregate bookings dataset.
2. Find out total bookings per property_id.
3. Find out days on which bookings are greater than capacity.
4. Find out properties that have the highest capacity.
5. In aggregate bookings find columns that have null values. Fill these null values with mean or median.
6. In aggregate bookings find out records that have successful_bookings value greater than capacity.
7. What is the average occupancy rate in each of the room categories?
8. Average occupancy rate per city.
9. When was the occupancy better? Weekday or Weekend?
10. In the month of June, what is the occupancy for different cities?
11. Revenue realized per city.
12. Month by month revenue

you can find the jupyter file here : [Report](https://github.com/Sandeepm959/Hospitality-Dataset-EDA-using-Python/blob/a410c70471f2935ef001d3795a1bbe559ad9f943/Hotel_EDA.ipynb)

#### Note
If there is a problem previewing the Jupyter Notebook on GitHub, please download the raw file and try to view file in your Jupyter Notebook.
